What do you want to be
when you grow up Olivia?
>> An astronaut.
>> Do you happen to know what
a computer programmer is?
>> Yeah, no.
>> Wait, what?
I'm not really sure how to explain it.
>> Computer programming is pretty simple.
It's a set of instructions like a recipe.
You have to follow them step-by-step
to get the end result you want.
>> What computer science is,
is that it's a way to impact the world.
>> It can be music videos,
it can be games.
>> Detect whether or
not someone's related to someone else.
You can find people's friends.
You can do all sorts of other crazy
things, like actually save lives.
>> You do have to have a drive, I think.
It is, to me, like a paintbrush.
I think great programming is not
all that dissimilar from great art.
>> When I finally learned
a little bit of programming,
that blank wall resolved
into a bunch of doors.
And you open them, and of course,
the thing you find behind them is another
hallway filled with a bunch of doors.
>> Programming is fun and easy.
You can do anything your mind wants to do.
>> Finally, you start to open enough
doors that the light comes in.
And to me, a finished program is
like a structure filled with light.
All the corners are illuminated.
>> The number of people
that you can touch and
interact with, is something
the world has never seen before.
>> Our first lesson in this series,
is all about what computer science is,
what a computer scientist does, and
how you can be more responsible
in your use of technology.
It's a very important lesson,
but it is a little text heavy.
But at the end,
you get to make your very own customized
encoding using your initials.
It's a fun activity and
it's very empowering,
because binary is one of those
things that feels very technical,
but once you understand it,
it's like you speak a secret language.
[MUSIC]